[MidRight]
Ha... My master Halcyon said the same thing. When we first started weapons training, I couldn't keep up. He told me, "If you can't train like a man, then you're going back to the house and doing woman's work instead." It wasn't the punishment he thought it would be--in fact, I far preferred the spoon over the spear.
[MidLeft]
Typical Rigelian childhood, then. All kinds of silly rules for who does what. Doesn't stop after you get drafted into the army, either.
[MidRight]
I shudder to think of it.
[MidLeft]
Well, that life's behind me. Nothing's stopping me from messing around in the kitchen now but my own lack of skill. Tell ya what--if you don't mind showing me a few tricks, I'll put in another order with my spice guy for whatever you need. Deal?
[X]

C: in the past. things the way they were - clive and fernand buddy buddy, clair obviously being forced into the mold of demure little girl, but very clearly straining to be allowed to let down her hair a little. Contrast clair’s boisterous masc-coded behaviour with fernand’s poised, polite femme. it still falls within noble standards and oldschool gender roles but there’s an undercurrent of pushing against the norm - even though fernand is acting as ‘normal’ and ‘traditional’ as possible.

maybe implement the organ idea if given permission. other things could involve pithy noble shit like table settings/tea ettiquette or whatever, clair warming her hands by the hearth while fernand tells her to sit still while HE handles things and she burns holes in her petticoat by accident or something. 

B: fernand is being sexist (leave the knighthood to the men, infantilizing her, upholding noble order. clair shuts him tf down. it shows how the cracks have formed in fernand’s worldview.

A: now that fernand’s entire world has fallen apart, he cannot stand to see clair not only cavorting with peasants, but has completely broken free of the gender roles that restrain her. could there be some underlying jealousy that she is allowed to take on a traditionally masculine role, but he will be ostracized for being feminine? fernand cannot articulate it, but he is struggling to come to terms with the fact he is being left behind. clair was his last confidant in the clive/mathilda/clair friend group, and now she’s BETTER than him, without even trying.




